The journey of humanity is not
yet over.
With luck,
or more likely, dedication and
skill,
we have a long way yet to
travel.
There's a lot happening in the
present
vying for our immediate
attention.
But one important property that
separates us
from the other apes
is our ability to plan for the
long-term.
To imagine a better world
and then work to bring it into
existence.
So now I'd like us to take a
step back
aqnd think on that big picture.
The future is coming,
whether we are ready or not.
It can be hard enough to plan
for the next week,
never mind the next year,
never mind the next decade.
But decades are only a tiny
sliver of the human story.
Our story is thousands, in some
ways millions, of years old.
And if things go well, it's
nowhere near close to done.
Predicting the future is
difficult and it's hard to
tell specific stories about it.
But there will be specific
things happening.
5000 years from now is real,
just as real as 5000 years ago.
So I'd like to end tonight with
a question:
What do you imagine?
What'll have become of humanity
millennia from now?
The future may be strange
beyond our ability to
visualize, but we are not
completely blind,
and our ability to foresee good
or ill
is key to our ability to steer
the future's course.
So when you look ahead,
what do you see?
And one more question:
what do you want to see?
If things go well,
if humanity makes it off of
this rock alive,
if you could nudge the universe
onto a better path,
with direction would you nudge
it?
Where are we going
and who shall we become?